you're listening to a teaching from Reality LA.
It is my honor to preach the word this morning.
I had a title that I cut, but I think it's fun, so I'm gonna share it with you.
Because today we're gonna be in Acts 15, looking at the Jerusalem Council, when the early disciples were answering the question, do Gentiles need to become Jews to be saved?
And my original title was on circumcision, consumption of blood, and other matters of covenant.
But it felt too puritan.
So we're going with no burdens, few requirements.
No burdens, few requirements.
This is, Acts 15 is the center of the book of Acts, both structurally and theologically.
So in our passage today, the author presents us with a historic moment in the history
of the church.
It's one that will settle a dispute, but will also set trajectory of mission for Christianity right up until today and get to the heart of what following Jesus is all about.
So, join me in Acts chapter 15.
If you're newer to the Bible, it's about this far through.
It's toward the back there.
Don't be afraid to use the table of contents.
I still do.
It's totally fine.
Acts 15, I will read verses one through 35.
Pray for us and then we will dive in.
But some men came down from Judea and were teaching the brothers, unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved.
And after Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and debate with them, Paul and Barnabas and some of the others were appointed to go up to Jerusalem to the apostles and to the elders about this question.
So being sent on their way by the church, they passed through both Phoenicia and Samaria, describing in detail the conversion of the Gentiles and brought great joy to all the brothers, a quick aside.
ESV says brothers, it's a word in Greek that means brothers and sisters, so it includes everybody.
Verse four, when they came to Jerusalem, they were welcomed by the church and the apostles and the elders,
And they declared all that God had done with them.
But some believers who belonged to the party of the Pharisees rose up and said, it is necessary to circumcise them in order to keep them in the law of Moses.
The apostles and the elders were gathered together to consider this matter.
And after there had been much debate, Peter stood up and said to them,
Brothers, you know that in the early days, God made a choice among you that by my mouth, the Gentiles should hear the word of the gospel and believe.
And God, who knows the heart, bore witness to them, giving them the Holy Spirit just as He did to us.
And He made no distinction between us and them, having cleansed their hearts by faith.
Now, therefore, why are you putting God to the test by placing a yoke on the neck of the disciples that neither our fathers nor we have been able to bear?
But we believe that we will be saved through the grace of the Lord Jesus, just as they will.
And all the assembly felt silent.
And as they listened to Barnabas and Paul, as they related what signs and wonders God had done through them among the Gentiles, after they finished speaking, James replied, brothers, listen to me.
Simeon has related how God first visited the Gentiles to take from them a people for his name.
And with this, the words of the prophets agree, just as it is written, after this I will return, and I will rebuild the tent of David that has fallen.
I will rebuild its ruins, and I will restore it, that the remnant of mankind may seek the Lord.
And all the Gentiles who are called by my name says the Lord, who makes these things known from of old.
Therefore my judgment is that we should not trouble those of the Gentiles who turn to God, but should write to them.
to abstain from things polluted by idols and from sexual immorality and from what has been strangled and from blood.
For from ancient generations, Moses has had in every city those who proclaim him, for he is read every Sabbath in the synagogues.
Then it seemed good to the apostles and the elders with the whole church to choose men from among them and send them to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas.
They sent Judas called Barsabas
and Silas leading men among the brothers with the following letter.
The brothers, both the apostles and the elders, to the brothers who are of the Gentiles in Antioch and Syria and Cilicia, greetings.
Since we have heard that some persons have gone out from us and troubled you with words unsettling your minds, although we gave them no instructions, it has seemed good to us having come to one accord
to choose men and send them to you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul, men who have risked their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
We have therefore sent Judas and Silas, who themselves will tell you the same things by word of mouth, for it has seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us to lay on you no greater burden than these requirements that you abstain from what has been sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from what has been strangled, and from sexual immorality,
If you keep yourselves from these, you will do well.
Farewell.
So when they were sent off, they went down to Antioch and having gathered the congregation together, they delivered the letter.
And when they had read it, they rejoiced because of its encouragement and Judas and Silas, who were themselves prophets, encouraged and strengthened the brothers with many words.
And after they had spent some time, they were sent off in peace by the brothers to those who had sent them.
But Paul and Barnabas remained in Antioch, teaching and preaching the word of the Lord with many others also.
This is the word of the Lord.
Let's pray.
Father in heaven, we come before your word asking, teach us.
How can we be saved?
What is required of us?
Help us to rejoice.
And so I thank you for the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ that has brought us here and I pray that you would open our ears to hear it and our eyes to see it.
Make our hearts fertile soil for the good news.
Holy Spirit, move among us in this room so that we would be, we would turn away from all lesser things and embrace wholeheartedly Christ Jesus our Lord.
I pray that many today in our city, in this room, sure, but in our city in general, many today would be brought from the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of your marvelous life, the preaching of the gospel.
Come and save our city, heal our hearts, and help us to hear you.
As for me, Lord, I am your vessel.
Let the meditations of my heart and the words of my mouth be pleasing to you, O Lord, our rock and our redeemer, and all the church said,
And then, one moment I get, this time of year I get a little bit runny.
Anybody else?
Yeah, just didn't bring my tissue up here.
Okay.
Well, it was late at night, the kind of late at night that only 23-year-olds do.
Moonlight was transforming the snow in my backyard into a field of diamonds, and she had tears in her eyes.
At least that's how I remember it.
We had been friends for eight years.
And for the previous month or so, she had finally started to respond to my incessant flirting.
And when I say incessant, I mean that I had become a byword and a mockery to my friends for how ridiculously dough-eyed I was for this girl.
But tonight, she was telling me that it would never work.
And I knew the reason.
She was a Christian, and I wasn't.
In her words, we were headed to two different directions.
We valued different things.
We had different priorities in life for family, money, career, et cetera.
This would be good for a little while, but it would not work long-term.
Our trajectory was just two different.
Now, I grew up in the Midwest around a lot of church people.
And so I understood Christianity and I had the perfect retort.
I said, listen, if you need me to wear a polo shirt and pleated khakis, if you need me to carry a Bible around and go to church, if you need me to do potlucks, that's fine.
I can do this, this can work.
And she said, you don't get it.
That's all I remember her saying.
She went on and so did I, but she was right.
Even then, I supposed that being a Christian, even with this example right in front of me of godly living, I suppose that being a Christian came down to join in the club showing up to the meetings following the rules.
Maybe you think similarly about Christianity.
Maybe you think that it's a set of rules and social norms that demand conformity to be accepted.
There's a dress code and certain jargon that gets used You can't believe in reason or science There's lots of do's and don'ts based on the Bible or in the Bible most of which killed the vibe There's one way to think and if you don't think that one way you're a heretic That you that eventually
over time, you have to become, if you were a Christian, a bigoted, ignorant, Bible-thumping sheep.
And if that's where you're at, I understand, totally understand that.
There are even some Christians who think this way, that Christianity is a set of do's and don'ts and regulations and social norms that dictate who's in and who's out.
And once you're in, you get to judge who's in and who's out and be a jerk about it.
Listen, in some sense, you're not wrong.
The Bible has a lot of commands in it.
And as fallen people, we love knowing what needs to be done, earning our keep, and then judging everyone who doesn't.
You do it too.
Pick a sphere of life, your work, your friend group, your social gatherings, your sports team.
We all love defining who's in, who's out,
How I've earned it and how you haven't.
The Bible has a lot of rules in it.
There are customs and cultural norms.
There's goofy things Christians say.
But the question is, is that a yoke you have to take up in order to belong?
What does, what is actually required of me to be saved?
What does it mean to be in?
The first century church clearly dealt with a similar problem.
Up to this point, Jews understood that according to the scripture, they were the chosen people of the one true living God, and they had lived that out by keeping his commandments, including avoiding certain foods, wearing certain fabrics, worshiping in specific ways, and avoiding Gentiles whenever they could.
But as the good news of Jesus Christ is trusted by both Jews and Gentiles in the first century, things got sticky.
An important question arose in the church.
What is required to be saved?
How can I be accepted by God?
How do we know who's in, who's out?
And so in Acts 15, we see very clearly the church working through this very issue.
We see a heated debate, a decision, and a declaration that answers the question of the heart.
What must I do?
to be accepted by God and sets the trajectory of the church's mission forever.
So we'll start at the beginning.
You may have noticed that chapter 15 starts like no other chapter in any book you've ever read starts, but some men, which is vague statement.
And if you don't know what's going on, that's very confusing.
What's happened here is
Paul and Barnabas two men have been sent out from the church in Antioch to other cities full of Gentiles to preach the gospel there.
They've now come back and they're explaining what has happened.
But some men came down from Judea and were teaching a different message.
Judea would have been the seat of the church at the time, the power center, if you will, of the Christian church and mostly
That's power center was Jewish.
The church in Antioch and the surrounding region was mixed, made up of Jews and Gentiles, Gentiles being anybody who's not Jewish.
But now in the gospel, those two communities were worshiping and praying together.
They were eating at the same table.
This was a sign of the kingdom come to earth, but it also created tension.
The question remained, who has to change?
The Bible was a Jewish text.
Jesus was Jewish.
Jewish culture was marked by rituals and customs prescribed by the Scriptures.
All of this, the gospel of Jesus Christ, what the church has become.
All of it is based in Judaism.
So did Gentiles need to become Jews in order to be saved.
On the other hand, Jesus said that he came not to abolish the law but to fulfill it.
If the law is fulfilled and the Holy Spirit has fallen on all without partiality, do Jews need to drop the law and become like everyone else?
And so in the midst of this tension that didn't seem that tense until other people came in and pointed it out, teachers from Judea, which would have been considered authoritative, come to this multicultural church in Antioch and start teaching, yes, all of the Gentiles in this room must
carry the law of Moses.
They must be circumcised to show that they're in the covenant with Abraham.
They have to carry the 613 commandments that Moses gave us in order to fully live a Jewish life and become saved.
That means they have to change how they eat, what they wear, how they do business, how they rest, who, what and when they'll get married to, how they worship, how they practice justice and on and on.
Paul and Barnabas opposed this strongly.
The debate got so heated that the church and Antioch said, some of you all need to go back to the original 12 apostles and have them decide what's happening.
And so we get the showdown in Jerusalem, also known as the Jerusalem Council.
On one side, you have converted Pharisees, devout Jews who would have memorized the law, lived by it, made sure that they stood out among everyone else so that
Everyone knew this is the way to live according to the Word of God, but now they're following Christ, and they're insisting that Gentiles must convert to Judaism to be saved.
On the other side, Paul, a converted Pharisee who is now insisting against his own party, Barnabas who has done this missionary journey and seen many Gentiles come to faith, and Simon Peter lead a apostle who Jesus called the rock.
Just as a side note, if you find yourself opposing Peter and Paul in any argument, you've lost.
Just give it up.
So the Pharisees have their say, we see that in verse five, it is necessary to circumcise them in order for them to keep the law of Moses.
They've asserted this very strongly and there's heated debate.
The language here actually indicates that it is
It's very contentious, this argument.
And then Peter stands up and speaks.
He gives this personal testimony of which you can read more in Acts 10, just five chapters previous to this.
And he makes this point.
First of all, God chose to do this.
He stands up in the room, he says, you guys all know that God chose to bring the gospel to the Gentiles through me.
And you also know
that the Holy Spirit fell on them just the way it fell on all of us.
He fell on all of us without them having to take on the law of Moses.
God knows the heart and has cleansed them by faith.
Now, and this is heated stuff.
It doesn't sound like it, but it's heated.
Now, therefore, why are you putting God to the test?
He's taking this group of people who's saying that they're faithful to God and he's saying, you're actually opposing God's work.
by placing a yoke on the neck of the disciples that neither our fathers nor we have been able to bear.
He's saying, you are now opposing the work of God by taking the 613 laws that our fathers and we are supposed to obey and we've never been able to do.
And now you're putting it on the yoke, on the necks of people who have been saved by faith through grace.
And his conclusion will circle back to quite a bit.
And 11, I love this.
But we believe, speaking for himself and the others who are bearing witness, we believe that we will be saved through the grace of the Lord Jesus just as they will.
It is good and I've lost my place.
I got so excited.
This wasn't a pause for dramatic effect.
I've just literally lost where I'm at.
Okay.
I found it.
So he lays all of this out and it's notable that when Peter speaks verse 12, all the assembly felt silent.
Paul and Barnabas fill the vacuum with their own testimony, sharing what they have seen God do among the Gentiles through their ministry.
And when they're finished, James, the brother of Jesus, responds.
Brothers, listen to me.
Simeon has related how God first visited the Gentiles to take from them a people for his name.
Stop there.
James seems to have been the facilitator of this meeting, and he was probably the leader of the church in Jerusalem.
Renown and respected, not
just because he was the brother of the Lord Jesus Christ, but actually because of his own godly character.
In fact, we have historical texts that show us that James was known to have prayed every single day in the temple of Jerusalem for the peace of Jerusalem.
And when he was martyred, a riot broke out three months later.
And people in the wake of the riot said, this is because they killed James and he's not praying for us anymore.
James was deeply respected.
And so he brings,
and end to the debate.
His observation is saturated with scripture.
He calls Peter by his Hebrew name, Simeon or Simon, and he says, he related how God first visited the Gentiles to take from them a people for his name.
Now, anybody who's familiar with Exodus, who's deeply familiar with Exodus will recognize this phrase.
Instantly, the whole room would have heard James say,
You've heard Peter testify that God brought these Gentiles out in an exodus.
James is instantly relating the Gentile inclusion, the Gentiles being saved by faith to Jews being saved from slavery in Egypt.
He then says after this, sorry, and with the words of the prophets,
They agree just that it is written.
He goes on to quote Amos 9, a prophecy given thousands of years before from God about how he would restore Jerusalem and the kingdom of David and include in that Gentiles.
What's brilliant about this, just to nerd out for just a second, what's brilliant about James reply is that he uses slightly different words than was in the text that he would have read in Amos 9.
And by using slightly different words, he actually all at one time quotes Amos 9, Hosea 3.5, Jeremiah 12, 15 to 16, Zechariah 2.11 and Isaiah 45.21.
In one quote with slight change of wording, he weaves together a whole theology that says Gentiles get to be included too.
He uses scripture to make sense of the experiences that they're seeing
not the other way around.
And this is where it comes knocking on our door a little bit.
This debate pitted personal conviction against personal testimony.
And the deciding factor was not how one felt over the other or who could roast the other one better.
The deciding factor was a leader of character referencing the scriptures.
I don't have to elaborate very much for all of us to be very aware that we live in a polarized society.
And the gravitational pull of everything around us is towards polarization, to pit us against each other.
And by us, I mean humans, but Christians included.
Our society all around us encourages you every day, make assumptions about other people,
Don't listen to them.
Listen only to people who agree with you.
Label anyone who disagrees as evil.
Dismiss any faults of your team.
Highlight their virtues and ignore the virtues of your quote unquote enemies and highlight their offenses.
This is the operation of our current world.
I'm glad to say that I see an upswell of counter.
culture to that, but it's there nonetheless.
And the gravitational pull will draw our hearts toward it.
But look here, these early Christians were talking about a matter of salvation.
Who's in the kingdom of God?
And how did they get there?
And there are very strong opinions, as I said, the language here is not casual disagreement, but heated debate.
but they never devolve into full-on division.
How is that possible?
Because in the kingdom of God, you can disagree without dividing.
You can have debate, but lack division.
You can wrestle with a topic, hear experiences and opinions, and be respectful of other people, all while attacking arguments.
We cannot take things personally.
This is so important.
We have the option to not take things personally.
And that starts with, we make sure that when we're arguing, it's about primary matters.
This is how it starts.
The debate in Acts 15 is not about how Christians should engage the oppression of Rome.
It's not about the tax system.
It's not about what to wear to church.
It's not about what you believe about when Jesus is coming back.
They have a heated debate over who's in, who's out, and how do you stay in.
Too often, we make secondary or tertiary or even periphery things, central.
And we don't do it on purpose, often.
But we get so personally invested in our own opinions that it becomes as if they are a primary issue.
And if anybody disagrees with the way I see this periphery thing, periphery thing, then they're my enemy.
Not so in the Christian church.
It ought not to be in the Christian church.
We go further in this when we
get so personally invested in our opinions that we find people to oppose within argue with them, God help you on the internet sometimes.
And then we take it upon ourselves to do our own research and find our own facts and be the final decision makers on the issue.
But that's not what the Council of Jerusalem shows us.
When the debate gets heated, when everybody recognizes this is too important to leave unsettled
and too important to decide among ourselves, they go to trusted leaders who will trust in the Word of God.
This debate is ultimately decided by Holy Scripture, the Holy Spirit, and leaders of character who trust in both.
Now to even get to this point requires good character.
Let's all be honest, to not take things personally requires some self-regulation that not everybody was raised with.
It takes respect for other people.
It takes self-control.
It takes a willingness to say, I love you too much to try to win this argument.
I'll tell this to my kids all the time.
I ask my kids rather.
What's more important?
Winning this argument or winning your brother?
And if it's not a primary thing, the answer cannot be winning the argument.
Jesus said, blessed are the peacemakers.
but peace is not made by avoiding conflict, or by starting a fight because you like winning.
Peace is made by addressing conflict with kindness, respect, submission to the spirit, submission to Scripture, and abiding ourselves in abundant grace.
Holy Scripture is all over this conversation, and the decision is made by the power of the Holy Spirit that's clear
By the way, James replies.
He makes these observations about what the text says, and then levies his decision.
So they've had the debate, they've heard every side, and now comes the decision.
Verse 19, James, the brother of Jesus, says, therefore, my judgment is that we should not trouble those of the Gentiles who turned to God, but should write to them to abstain from things polluted by idols, and from sexual immorality, and from what has been strangled, and from blood.
So let's talk about the decision.
We'll talk about the absomences in a moment, but let's talk about the decision.
The summary decision to this debate, do Jews need to become Gentiles and Gentiles become Jews?
May seem obvious to us in the 21st century, but in the 1st century it was not clear.
The decision is this, followers of Christ from every nation are not defined by a set of prescribed rituals and customs, but by faith in Christ.
Followers of Christ from every nation
are not defined by a set of prescribed rituals and customs, but by faith in Christ.
In other words, Jews do not need to become Gentiles.
Gentiles do not need to become Jews.
All are saved by grace through faith with no additional religious burden.
Gentiles will not be included because they complete certain rituals, but because of faith in Christ.
Jews are not required to drop all rituals and customs.
but to carry them according to their convictions and the grace of Christ.
Jews get to be Jews, Gentiles get to be Gentiles.
All are saved by grace.
There is no hierarchy.
Peter says it, clearest, we believe that we will be saved by the grace of the Lord Jesus just as they will.
If you've come into this room, not knowing much about Christianity or thinking you knew a lot like I did once,
that it's a lot of do's and don'ts, and as long as I figure all those out, I'll be fine.
You need to hear this loud and clear.
To be a Christian means you belong to Christ, and it is a belonging that you cannot earn.
And if you can't earn it, you can't lose it either.
There are plenty of things you have to earn in life.
You have to earn a driver's license.
You earn entry into university.
You keep those things by staying within the lines.
But there are other things that you know already that you just receive.
And then you learn how to do it afterward.
You are a teammate.
Then you learn how to be a teammate.
You are a sibling.
And then you learn how to love brothers and sisters.
You are a grandparent.
And then you learn how to relate to your grandchildren.
to put a really fine point on this and at the risk of belaboring a point too late.
No one in here just decided one day, you know what?
I'm gonna buy a leash, put a bowl of food on the floor, and go to a park full of dogs without owning a dog.
You do all of those things, not so you can have a dog, but you do all those things because you have a dog.
You are a dog owner, therefore you do things that dog owners do.
Putting a bowl of food on the floor, having a leash, going to the dog park, going on morning walks, buying a carpet cleaner.
The change is not that I did all these things so I could earn the identity that I have.
It's I'm doing these things because of what I've become.
This is the rules and
customs and things that you observe in Christianity.
This is how we're meant to live.
This is how we operate.
I belong to the kingdom of God.
Therefore, I live as a citizen of heaven.
No one is in Christ because of rights, rituals, and customs.
It's not hereditary.
All our preteens and high schoolers in the room.
You're not a Christian just because your parents are.
It is given by Christ.
and by choosing to respond to His grace.
God is the prime mover in this story.
We merely respond.
We are trees in the mighty wind of God's mercy, blowing where He wills us to go.
Peter says it best, we shall be saved through the grace of our Lord Jesus just as they are.
This is the gospel.
This is the word of the gospel.
that they were debating and talking about.
That while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.
That before you even knew you needed a savior, one came for you.
Before you knew you needed to be healed, a healer showed himself.
Before you even trusted that God existed, he showed himself by becoming a man and dying for your sins so that you could be forgiven, redeemed, and never have fear of death.
Death, the thing that looms over all of us and puts fear in our hearts, God has said, will not have the final word if you trust in Him.
The author of life offers you life through Christ Jesus and there's nothing you can do to earn it.
I'm sorry overachievers, there's nothing you can do to earn it.
All you can do
is trust that it's true.
Christ has died while we were yet sinners.
Why?
Why would He do that?
Because He loves us.
That's it.
Because He loves you.
And because He saw you before you were formed and He knew to dwell with you is going to be the joy of my heart.
Therefore, I will endure the shame of this cross.
so that you will have new life.
He died, but he didn't stay dead.
He rose on the third day.
The author of life is alive forever.
And all you have to do is call upon his name.
All you have to do is call upon his name.
You don't have to go to church and read your Bible and wear khakis to become a Christian.
You have to trust in Christ.
And then, because you trust in Christ, you will come to church, maybe on time.
You will read your Bible.
You will pray.
Cackies are optional.
The pleats are coming back in style.
They will go away again.
How we live in the church flows from who we are and who we are is because of what Christ has done for us.
We don't earn this.
We receive it gladly and live in light of it.
This lifts all burdens.
No man or woman in Christ is defined as such because of rigorous adherence to a standard, but because you call on the name of Jesus and he is mighty to save and mighty to keep you.
Brother and sister, if you've come into this room full of shame because you have failed the standard this week,
There is a Savior for you and His grace is sufficient for you and His blood is powerful to cleanse you of all sin.
The debate is settled.
The decision is made unanimously.
All are welcome by faith through grace.
And so the council makes this declaration of unity to the church in Antioch.
Read with me in verse 23, the letter.
The brothers, both the apostles and the elders, to the brothers who are of the Gentiles and Antioch, Assyrian, Cilicia, greetings.
Stop there.
Look how grace creates fellowship where there was one's dissension.
The Jews who had the market cornered on what it means to know God.
Say to the Gentiles and Antioch in the surrounding region, our brothers.
your brothers right to you greetings.
The Greek here actually could be translated, your brothers, the apostles.
The apostles just called me brother.
And they repeat this word brothers over and over, not only that, but they affirm the ministry of Paul and Barnabas by saying, we have sent back with you our beloved Paul and Barnabas.
Love flows freely where grace abounds.
The declaration is that we were all one family in Christ.
And because the grace of Christ has done that, there is no burden for you.
Be free.
The new life, be free.
They even go out of their way to point out.
We have heard, verse 24, that some persons have gone out from us and troubled you with words unsettling your minds, although we gave them no instructions.
They clarify.
These people were not from.
We did not tell them to do that.
So disregard what you've heard from them.
So it seemed good to us, to verse 25, having come to one accord, that one accord means unanimous.
We are unified in this decision to choose men and send them to you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul, men who have risked their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus.
We have therefore sent Judas and Silas.
They're saying,
Okay, the guys before, we didn't tell them to do that.
These guys, we told them to do this.
They're speaking with our voice.
They will tell you the same things by the word of their mouth.
It has seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us to lay no greater burden on you than these requirements.
And they are few.
So there's no religious burden, but there are requirements.
This may seem contradictory, but think for just a moment,
When you became a member of that team, when you got married, when you added a family member, whether a sibling got married or you had a child or you adopted a child, when you added a family member, you weren't like, there was no burden of like, I have to do a bunch of stuff, but there are requirements.
You have to sacrifice time and energy for these people.
You have to readjust your expectations for these people.
Things do change.
So there are some requirements.
And here they are.
What if I just read this and just left it?
That'd be fun.
I'm not gonna do that.
The requirements are this, that you abstain from what has been sacrificed to idols and from blood and from what has been strangled and from sexual immorality.
If you keep yourselves from these, you will do well.
Very well.
Okay, so let's look at this.
In summary, there's talking so much about blood, what is happening?
In summary, what they're saying is, all right, all you Gentiles?
No more pagan stuff.
Everything they've listed here was really common practice in the temples of Roman gods.
To shed the blood of an animal and then cover yourself in it, drink it, eat the animal while it's still got all of its blood in it.
All that kind of wild stuff that right now, all of us are like, gross.
The reason you're like, gross is because the Christian church got rid of all of that.
Pagan stopped doing it because Christians made it unpopular.
So don't take it as like, man, what a bunch of weirdos.
That actually was the norm.
That was the norm.
It was the expectation to not engage in temple worship that involved the blood of animals and eating blood and sexual immorality, cult prostitution, to not engage in those things was the weird thing.
And now the leaders of the church are saying, all right, you guys used to be pagans.
You can't do that stuff anymore.
Why?
Why do away with all of it?
Not that anybody hears like, man, shucks.
But the Scriptures make very clear, blood holds the power of life.
And there's only one person who can give you life.
And that's Christ.
And so all other engagement with blood is off the table.
Because to do so would be engaged in pagan ritual.
So these common things in
pagan life are now expected to stop.
Secondly, this is actually genius because it addresses the pagan practices, but it also helps out the Jewish brothers and sisters who had really strict codes of conduct and convictions about what foods they couldn't eat.
See, in the ancient Near East, who you ate with was who you belong to.
When you eat dinner with somebody, you're saying, you belong to me and I belong to you.
We are connected.
But if I have really strict religious convictions about what foods I can and cannot eat and you don't, we can't sit at table together.
So how is that going to get resolved?
Well, these prohibitions not only say pagan stuff's got to stop, but they make space for kosher law and therefore increase table fellowship.
They increase who you can break bread with so that you can continue to affirm who you belong to.
What the leaders in Jerusalem are saying to the Gentiles is, hey, your brothers, the Jews around you have really strict convictions about food.
Don't offend them.
Love them.
Embrace those convictions.
And by doing that, they're also saying to the Jews in these areas, you don't have to give this up if it hurts your heart to do so.
So how do we make sense of any of this?
Because again, I don't think any of you are like shocks.
I got to stop strangling animals and then eating them whole.
What do we do with this?
We do this.
You don't have to share the same convictions with the brothers and sisters around you.
In this room, you do not have to share the same convictions on food, drink, celebration, but you should maintain compassion and understanding for those who have other perspectives.
and watch out for idolatry.
You do not have to hold the same convictions where scripture is not clear, but you do have to maintain compassion and understanding and watch yourself for idolatry.
The church was then, is now, and especially here in our city, is a multicultural community.
We come from differing backgrounds, spiritual, socio-economic, ethnic, even denominational backgrounds.
So we're all gonna have differing opinions on practices about food, clothes, holidays, words we use, music we listen to, whether or not you take your shoes off when you get into the house.
All of these will be different.
We do not have to become a monoculture, but we must love.
We must show patience and kindness and understanding.
We must show compassion when convictions are different.
We must keep no record of wrongdoing.
but forgive as Christ has forgiven us and show mercy and abundance because mercy has been given to you.
This is vital for Christian maturity.
Young believers are gonna make mistakes.
People from different backgrounds are gonna do things different and it's probably gonna offend you.
To grow and show grace and not hold it against them.
will make you more like Christ, because you will learn what love looks like.
My season saints, though, you can't think that you've got the market cornered on holiness, because some of our expectations are fully cultural.
The type of music we prefer, the way we prefer, people dress when they come to church, fully cultural, rather than biblical.
And so we must be generous to all and kind.
where we have differences.
This is vital for maturity and it's vital for unity.
Remember where grace abounds, unity abounds.
And so hold fast to that grace that you would be unified.
This is essential for mission.
Our whole sermon series in the book of Acts is about the mission of God.
We're talking a lot about in-house issues right now.
But this is vital for mission because recognizing your freedom in Christ is good.
It means you can eat with anybody.
You can have coffee with anybody, but it also means you can make adjustments when necessary.
It's vital that freedom is not flaunted for the sake of freedom.
Witnessing to Jews, Muslims, Mormons, even recovering addicts may necessitate that for a time you put away things that you have the freedom to take part in.
And that is love.
And we must watch out for idolatry.
Every culture.
has a temptation to idolatry.
In our culture, sex is an idol.
And so all of us have to watch out for the idolatry of sexual relationships.
On both sides, so I'm gonna talk to two different people right now and then I'm gonna close.
On one end, Angelenos, we got a chill on the sex stuff.
Billboard's got a chill out.
It is over-indulged in, but if you have partaken in the past, recent or distant, the grace of Christ will set you free.
You don't earn your way out of that hole.
You repent your way out of it.
You confess to the Lord and then to a brother and you get the help you need.
Brother and sister, you get the help you need.
You get out of that hole, not by earning your way out, but by receiving freely the love that's given to you and let that wash away the shame.
Now there's a different kind of idolatry here though, where we get all up in arms and we try to hold the whole world accountable to what only Christians are accountable to.
And we start sitting on a high horse and judging everybody around us for what they've done or haven't done.
Land never be so for this church.
If we're gonna receive the renewal of our city through the good news of Jesus, we need to receive the good news first.
But there is nobody in this city, a greater center than I am.
And the only one who can judge all people is on the throne of heaven.
It's not me.
And so it's grace.
It's grace that brings us home.
So take a moment
and evaluate your life and relationships.
It's the new year, the time to do this.
Evaluate your life and relationships, your connection with God.
Well, it's not working.
Are you trying to earn your place in the kingdom of God?
Are you weary and weighed down with all you're achieving and doing your attempts to feel like you've earned your spot?
Come to Christ, receive His grace, trust Him and He will give rest.
to your weary soul.
Are you a slave to passion and vice full of shame and emptiness?
Come to Christ, He will set you free and cleanse you and make you new.
Are you consumed with bitterness and envy that poison is drink of scrutinizing others?
Come to Christ, confess He will heal you and fill you with compassion.
argue at odds with a fellow Christian, especially one in this room.
Have you been the one demanding of others what only Christ can supply?
Come to Christ.
Don't fix it on your own.
Receive mercy and then go show mercy.
Receive forgiveness and then be a peacemaker.
Come to Christ.
He will do all that you need and more and we are convinced
that we will be saved through the grace of the Lord Jesus, just like you, and pray for us.
Father in heaven, we thank you for the abundance of grace that you've shown us in our Lord Jesus Christ.
And we thank you that when we come to you and ask what's not working, you're a good dad.
And so you're not gonna sugarcoat things, but you'll be gracious about it.
So bring forth the things that we need to put away.
In your grace, Lord, I pray that you would draw forth the things in our souls that need to be put away.
The burdens we carry, the vices we hold onto, give us the power to put them away today.
And Lord Jesus, teach us to walk in your newness of life now and forever.
Amen.
Thank you for listening.
For more audio and video content, please visit realityla.com.